I wanted to briefly talk about the architecture of Selenium and WebDriver.
And as you can see from this diagram, we have any of our
programming languages, such as Java,
C#, Ruby, Python, it's actually not limited to just these four, that's just some
of the more popular or common ones that we use with WebDriver, and those all run
on top of or sit on top of the WebDriver API that uses drivers such as the
Chrome driver or Firefox driver or IE, or you can even use generic HtmlUnit to
communicate with those browsers.
So we have, say for example, Java code that we run through the WebDriver API
that will talk to Chrome. We saw an example of that when we used the Selenium
IDE to record our test script and then copy that Selenese into our IDE. And we
just opened it up in our Notepad and we didn't have to change anything. It
created the unit test for us that will now run through the WebDriver API and
control Chrome. And you'll see later in this course for us to switch between
Chrome or Firefox or Internet Explorer, all we have to do is tell it to
utilize a different driver and that's all we have to change in our code.
We don't have to change any of the actual source code
other than just specifying a driver.
So it's a simplistic view of what the architecture is doing, but suffice it
to say, we have the WebDriver API that sits between our programming
language, and it's a driver for our specified browser, and that enables us
to talk through that API to control it without actually having to programmatically do anything different.